# How to break in to Web3/Ethereum Development

### Target Audience
The target audience of this article is the developers who can independently develop tranditional softwares/websites/apps and trying to step into web3 development. It will not show the step-by-step guide of a specific technology. Instead it will try to explain how the different technologies work together in web3 system. Once you understand the role a technology plays in the system, it will be much easier to dig into it.  

## First of first, the Ethereum Account

Like most tranditional websites/apps, you need to create an account to start exploring the web3 world. <a href="https://metamask.io/">Metamask</a> is a good .   
Once you have an account, you can receive/send tokens with your wallet application.

### Etherscan
<a href="https://etherscan.io">Etherscan</a> is a website providing powerful useful tools. It could be used for:
1. Verifying transactions. When people send other tokens, they would like to send the etherscan transaction record for notification and verification.
2. Reading code of smart contracts.
3. Interact with smart contracts.
4. Many other advanced purposes.

### Important to Know  
1. In crypto world, your account is stored locally in your computer/phone. If you don't back up the accounts correctly, your account will be lost permanently when you re-install your system or uninstall your wallet application.   
2. Never upload your private key to any website in order to operate your account. 

### How a Wallet Works
At first you need to understand how the data is stored. Let's assume you have 1 ETH in your account, saying 0x1111111111111111111111111111111111111111. What does it really mean? Let's imagine ETH network is a big database, then the line of data with id = "0x1111111111111111111111111111111111111111" has value of 1 ETH (which is stored as 10^18 since 1 ETH = 10^18 wei). When you are sending 0.1 ETH to another account "0x2222222222222222222222222222222222222222", your wallet will take your private key, sign the transaction request "send 0.1 ETH to 0x2222222222222222222222222222222222222222", and then broadcast the signed data to ETH network. Once it is picked up by the miner and put into a block, the transaction is done.   

### Advanced Concepts

So what really happens when you create an Ethereum account? There is a big difference between crypto account and account in tranditional applications.   
In a tranditional application, when the user create a new account, a line of data is added into the application database. The action is visible to anyone who is watching at the server side.   
In crypto world, when you create an account, you generate a private key, and the key mathematically maps to an Ethereum address. This operation is a pure local operation, nothing is sent to the network so nothing is observable at this time. If some fund is transferred to this account address, observers will see the fund at this address, but till now, no evidence is showing this account is possessed by anyone. You can imaging an address is a locker cell. When you forge a key, you know which cell you can open with this key without trying. Therefore we have following facts: 
1. The complicated operations you did in wallet application is not theoreticlaly required, but just a best practice, to balance between "easy to keep" and "difficult to compromise". Of course you can use string "1" as your private key, but you may not want to use this account to keep your fund).   
2. The "offline software cold wallet" becomes possible. It is just a normal wallet application installed on a offline phone. You can use this offline wallet to create an account and deposit value to it. When you want to operate the account, just use the offline device to sign the transaction generated by another online device (by scanning QR code).


## The Ethereum Endpoint
An endpoint provides REST API for your web3 application to call. The applications interact with Ethereum network via an endpoint. You can imagine the endpoint as Wi-Fi. You phone need to connect to a Wi-Fi endpoint to connect to Internet.    
When we are using a downloaded application, the application has built-in endpoint. So we don't need to provide the endpoint information. But if you are developing your own application, you need your own endpoint. 
An Ethereum node could provide endpoint facility. However maintaining a node is not cost effective nowadays. It is recommended to used 3rd party providers e.g. <a href="https://infura.io">Infura</a>. Infura charges by number of API calls but the free plan includes enough resources for your development. 


## Ethereum Smart Contract
If we compare a web3 application with a tranditional web application:
- The Ethereum network is the server environment, including the operation system, database, and the runtime environment, e.g. Python or Java. The developers don't need to do anything about the network (and they are not able to) as long as they have a working endpoint.
- The smart contract is the server side application. The developers write a contract in <a href="https://docs.soliditylang.org/">Solidity</a>, and then deploy it to the network. After the deployment, there will be an address (which is in same format with an account address on Ethereum - it might be different on other chain) associated with the contract. You can consider the contract address is same as the IP/port in Internet. The client application need to know the contract address in order to interact with it.  
- The application:
    - If it is a website running on web browser, the application interact with network via browser extension, like metamask. The javascript web3 library will automatically make the connection. 
    - If it is a standalone application, you need your own endpoint. (I am not aware of any library work as metamask avaialble for standalone application for now but technically it is possible)
There is another big difference on smart contract is: on a traditional server application, the application runs with server privilege and certain logic may run with user privilege. A smart contract always run with the caller's privilege and there is no so-called server privilege.  
- Note it does not mean in the contract, all the callers must have same privilege. A smart contract could be designed to have different caller roles. 

### To Start Contract Development
A developer may need the following to develop a smart contract:
- Learn <a href="https://docs.soliditylang.org/">Solidity</a>
- A development environment (Ethereum officially recommands <a href="https://hardhat.org">Hardhat</a> or <a href="https://www.trufflesuite.com">Truffle</a>). You can run javasript unit test cases locally to test your contracts.
- A tool to deploy contract to network. 
    - The official tool: <a href="https://remix.ethereum.org/">Remix</a>
    - Truffle also provides utility to deploy on selected network

### The ERC Standard
When people are talking about "Ethereum Token", most likely they are talking about an ERC20 token. The full name of ERC is Ethereum Request for Comments. In language that a normal human can understand, an ERC is a standard template that serves a specific purpose. For example, ERC20 is the standard token template. If you want to create your own token, here is what you need to do:
1. Search for "ERC20 implementation", most likely you will get the <a href="https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/master/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol">OpenZeppelin Contract</a>
2. Copy the file to your local computer.
3. Replace the contructor to following:
    ```
    constructor() {
        _name = "<the token name you prefer>";
        _symbol = "<the token symbol you prefer>";
        _mint(_msgSender(), <the mount of supply>);
    }
    ```
4. Deploy the contract to a testnet (of course you can do it on mainnet but you may want to save some money).
5. Swith your metamask to that testnet and check your account (with which you deploy the contrat), add the contract address, and you will see the token, and you can send some tokens to your friends. 
6. You also can check the balance at the corresponding etherscan testnet. 

### Testnets
As we know that if you send transaction on Ethereum, it will cost GAS, and the GAS is expensive now. Testnets are Ethereum alternative networks on which the ETH is free to obtain. You can switch your network in Metamask to view the account on Testnets. To get free ETH for your testing, for example, on Rinkeby, you can search for "Rinkeby faucet" on Google and it will show you how to do that.   
